As a writer, you have to be prepared for criticism on occasions, also sometimes the first publishing house you approach may not like your novel for a variety of reasons, like: they have stopped publishing that genre of books, they maybe old fashioned and might not be able to relate to your work etc. He is a Royal Enfield fan and has been collecting money for quite sometime to buy his first bullet, with which he wants to conquer Himalayas next year, much like this he did in 2012 on a rented Enfield. For me the best compliment I have got so far is “You have evolved as a writer.” These kind of compliments praising my evolution as a writer touch me more than any other words of encouragement. Many people with unique skills are forced to do manual labour or other jobs as their talents are not scalable, and they cannot sustain themselves and their family solely on it. His third book “She is single, I’m taken… And we’re committed” came out in mid-Aug 2012, which completed the Kanav-Tanya trilogy and it had garnered favorable reviews. He was enlisted in the Top 10 Hottest Young Entrepreneurs for 2010 by Businessworld and was one of finalists at Global Student Entrepreneur Awards 2011. He has also contributed 10 stories to the popular ‘Chicken Soup series.’ In May 2011, he completed his B.tech in Engineering Physics from IIT Delhi. I would also like to mention my parents who have supported me throughout my journey and also a good friend of mine,who helps me with editing my books. He has a keen interest in photography, biographies, public speaking and music, especially instruments, a dozen of which he can play naturally. He also went on a yearlong solo tour of India , taking a break from everything that he was up to in order to explore India as well as himself . He also co-founded thewittyshit.com – a creative networking and crowdsourcing portal – in June 2010, while still in his fourth year at IIT. I stayed in the homes of my readers and friends when I traveled Everyone was really hospitable, many even gave me a tour of their city 5. He published a research paper in one of the most prestigious journals of Optics during his internship at the University of Glasgow in UK. I was travelling on a shoestring budget, So I got to experience a side of amazing side of India, that most people are not aware of. ‘I’ fell in love!” (2009) has sold over 75000 copies till date and is recognized in Nielsen’s top 250 Indian books by sales. It had been his childhood dream and the moment he got free from everything he was up to, he forged ahead to accomplish that. He is a firm believer of writers being doers rather than talkers, since he knows the way action can inspire, words can never. The artisans are given small loans, so that they can do what they